# Determining the Optimal Number of Clusters in Clustering Analysis: Adjusted Silhouette Coefficient Based on Median

This repository contains the codes of simulation and real data application chapters of my thesis titled *Determining the Optimal Number of Clusters in Clustering Analysis: Adjusted Silhouette Coefficient Based on Median*, which I wrote for the master's program in Data Science at Dokuz Eylul University. It consists of 3 files: [same_n](https://github.com/ozturkfemre/masters-thesis/tree/main/same_n), [different_n](https://github.com/ozturkfemre/masters-thesis/tree/main/different_n), and [real_data_sets](https://github.com/ozturkfemre/masters-thesis/tree/main/real_data_sets).

## same_n & different_n

The files same_n and different_n are simulation runs. In same_n, each of the clusters in the generated datasets has an equal number of observations. In different_n, each of the clusters in the generated datasets has a different number of observations. Both files contain two R scripts and 3 other files. The files ending with *validations.R contain cluster validation codes and the R scripts starting with cluster_determination* contain codes for cluster number determination.

The names of the files are data_sets, methods_coeffients, and validation_results. These files contain data sets generated by simulation, coefficients of cluster determination methods and cluster validation results respectively.

## real_data_sets

This file is created with the same logic. Two files contain data sets and coefficients of cluster number determination methods and two R script contains codes of validation and cluster_number determination.
